scaling parameter inherited from main epinow2 model, where it doesn't do much


e.g. CFR

naively cfr = 0.02



without obs_opts 

obs_opts scale values are the prior

small sd means firm prior so can't fit

in rt if you set it it's a prior and carries through

obs_opts defines prior for ratio of secondary to primary, *at time of secondary*


one is about p(observing primary) (phi used when negative binomial)
one is about prior on ratio primary:secondary (scaling is per mcmc sample, so deterministic fraction you get per-obs noise of the over-dispersion)

if you have fitting problems dropping from NB to poisson can help

if you're ooking at something that's very correlated, you get very little overdispersion (so negative binomial isn't great), so using poisson is better.



how to set proportion of latent infections are observed?

can we just set to 100% for a "reference period"?

I literally don't understand what's going on....... :'/


if you think it's not just observation level noise

i.e. if sum of observed primary & secondary obs doesn't add up  to primary, then 

if you think there's an expectation level difference, then you need to use the scaling parameter

not using for bed occupancy - assuming it's 100% recorded

with ICU it's different because not every hospitalised case goes to ICU

look at data. one thing is at different scale to the other thing



where delay distribution and scaling both change then we cacn't recover all parameters correctly... can see that something is changing but can't detect which one.

more stable the growth rate the harder it is to identify what's happening

if growth rate in primary observation is changing a bit then you can ID parameters

same time delay and fraction of events, steady growth rate of primary, delayed secondary with identical growth rate

can't id whether growth rate or ratio has changed.

relates to prior choice and window length etc.

can't find a set of parameterisations which work in all scenarios.

check branch of epinow2. can specify all these things with gaussian processes

fit is an RStan object. classic RStan object

a bunch of lists of posterior draws

the best way of interacting with is is using the "posterior" package by paul someone

SAM has taken it, given it nicer names, and interacted via the R code.

logic of the STAN model

Q: are delays being fitted at all? is delay_opts() giving a prior, or setting a fixed thing for some variability?
Yes it's a prior and fits the delay distribution in the model. logmean and sd of lognormal
if you don't to do this then you can fit a regression

in clean system prior can be uninformative

issue could be that lognormal isn't a good distribution to fit, then will be tricky if bad prior.

if you don't want to estimate delay distribution, then this ( estimate_secondary() ) is a less-good fit. instead you could do a regression.


if you mis-specify delay distribution, then CFR changes

literature delay distribution can be wrong then leads to bad CFR change

epidemic phase bias (see epidemic growing or shrinking when not the case)


can fit a static delay distribution, then gaussian process to the CFR.

calculate delays from linelist and enter into delay_opts() 

havent' figured out how to do this with windows of time...

can turn off fitting for delay distribution.

would have to adjust some of the STAN code.

or you could just use fitted delay as very informative prior (probably better)

(and leave CFR to be uninformed)


bars related to the ribbon, points show primary

week effect is a dirchlet prior, so better to leave uninformed, because dirichlet priors are hard to specify

SAM was taking upstream dataset and applying a bunch of scenarios to that dataset

similar to what they did with estimate_infections() in MMED



sam has fixed TS of primary, then applies various assumptions about ratio between primary and secondary

but this doesn't work when growth rate isn't changing in the primary data

no change in growth rate makes it hard to identify other changes


Carl:

think about elements that you are composing - given some baseline primary series, we are going to create secondary cases from it in terms of some fixed delay and proportion
so we feed it primary series, and a fixed delay and proportion = secondary cases

can give it a variable delay, which gets applied to primary thing

i.e. have one function for fixed delay + fixed proportion

describe the set of transformations that we are interested in doing here.

e.g. elts say we want to do tsomething which arfects the change in primary reporting, with some delay from the start.


it would be useful for yall to think in terms of the verbs of what you want ot have go on with the time series
things like

the primary case series changes at some fixed delay from teh start of the series, to have xyz change in reporting

so we have synthetic primary which is
flat
stochastic flat
increasing
decreasing
flat then increasing
flat then decreasing
increasing then decreasing
decreasing then increasing
increasing then increasing more
decreaseing then decreasing more

we want to set up test bed
feed basically three types of primary outcomes

steady, growing, or declining

apply various transformations to obtain secondary *and* observed primary.


i.e. build "true" reference datasets,

then transform to get *observed primary*, *observed secondary*, 

insteal of enumerating them, we enumerate few scenarios, and few transformations

do one thing from start to finish.



would be really useful:

- look at this (what we have) in action
- get "on paper" something that look like a list of the things that we want. what "dimensions" we are thinking about, and what are the *values* on those dimensions
	- i.e. a list of the axes on which we are thinking about creating the synthetic data.
- put this in the readme. README can have checkboxes to track comeplete/incomplete.


dims:
- what's going on with primary series
- true epidemic (or observation) noise
- what is going on with secondary rate
	- how fast is secondary rate changing?